# cs210_termProject

Hello, in my project I have worked on my usage logs in Google Maps between December 2015-December 2023. There were a few reasons for me to select the Google Maps as the source of data. Firstly, the interval of records is wide, which is 8 years of time. Also I believe I use Google Maps more actively than health apps or social media apps since I enjoy walking around new places. It might not be used more actively than Whatsapp or Spotify, but I did not want to use Spotify as it is used by many in CS210 project or Whatsapp because of personal privacy issues.

Obtaining data from Google Maps was fairly easy, I just had to go to the section for my data from the main page of Google Maps and select the data that I wanted to download. I pushed the data within .zip file as Records.json file, which has about 615000 logs inside of it. I already explained my workflow in the Jupyter file but it would be nice to make a brief summary for it.

Firstly, I needed to tidy up the data in .json file as it would not be efficient to process it as a single piece of string, so I created a dataframe out of it for preprocessing and I altered that dataframe with a few new columns. Then I inspected some columns to reach some conclusions on my usage trends and on the missing parts in dataframe as exploratory data analysis. While doing all of these things, I noted my null hypotheses inside the notebook file so that I could change them when needed. At the next part, I used data visualization to discover and show patterns in my data, such as regression, correlation and causation. Finally, I trained a model to fill the missing values for a column with predictions based on the known values in that column. Please check the notebook file to see more on these steps.

In my project, I learned that I spent so much time outside in 2018 and 2019. Indeed, when I think about it, those 2 years might be the most relaxed times of my life. The pressure of university exam did not kick in yet and there was no pandemic in Turkey. Additionally, I went abroad for the first time in my life in 2018 to Western Europe countries, and the results of data showed themselves accordingly. Another finding was on my monthly usage trends. I was surprised when I found out that I used Google Maps mostly in November, December and October, since my claim was that those months would be the months of summer or close to summer season. And a different finding was that about 90% of my usages were in Istanbul. It was not shocking to see the usages in Istanbul to have the majority but the ratio is far more greater than what I expected. These were some of my findings and if you want to know more about my conclusions, please see the notebook file.

In my opinion, I could improve the accuracy of prediction model that I trained. Its accuracy is slightly higher than 50% and it would be nice to work on that in the future with more logs held in some of the metrics. Moreover, I plan to increase the level of optimization for my methods as I struggled at some parts in terms of memory and time. I believe these will be easier as I move on in my courses.

Thanks for reading. Hope you enjoyed it!

Arda Barış Tonbil     31130
